Hi all! This is my DALI Data Science application for 23S. We were assigned a large set of data from a superstore and tasked with two things: A) Properly visualize the data and B) model the data in some way (freeform).

A. Visualizing the data
To visualize the data, I started by making new columns for the the order date month and year, week in the year, and weekday. I did this to bin the data so graphs would be easier to digest. I made the weekday column to visualize changes in sales over the course of a given week. Next, I grouped sales data by Category and by Region. I plotted those to answer questions like: what industry might be the most volatile? and what region has the most orders? I did these line plots for both the number of orders and the $ in sales. Next, I made a quick pie chart of all the Sub-Categories to get an idea of what goods are being sold the most. Then, I moved onto some mapping plots. I was curious about how sales were distributed across the country -- a line graph can only show that so much, and I though a map would be a great way to visualize sales. I made two maps-- one for cities and one for states to get an idea of the sales numbers. I also made a state map with plotly so users can hover over and see the sales values. Next, the sum of profit and sales for each sub-category of product were shown to get an idea of what makes the most money and sells the most. I remade the state map again just to test some numbers.

B. Modelling
For the modelling component I went through a few options. I wanted to predict the next year of total orders using a system that could be repeated on individual products or subcategories. This would be useful to the superstore because they could know how much of a product to order in anticipation of selling a lot or a little. I started with ARIMA but ran into a few issues with it. Next, I used NeuralProphet, which was great but had less functionality. I ultimately settled on regular Prophet because there were more functions and seemed to make more accurate predictions with the long term data than NeuralProphet or ARIMA. I modelled Prophet to weekly quantity data so this theoretical company can estimate how many items it might sell at a given time in the next year. Again, this can be repeated on subcategories -- this was just an example on the larger set of data. The fit actually looked pretty good considering the volatility of the data, although the RMSE was 173.3. I also plotted the trends and seasonality to show that there was a general upward trend in data and the annual trends show peaks in September and December (holiday season!).
